## Q&A
What is a bag of words approach?
- A decomposed representation of data that does not take into account word order or sentence structure

What is Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA)?

What is Singular Value Decomposition (SVD)?
- SVD is a matrix factorization 

What is Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF)
- NMF is a matrix factorization

Stemming and Lemmatization

Are the words below the same?
- organize, organizes, and organizing
- democracy, democratic, and democratization

What does stemming and lemmatization do?
- Generates the root form of words
- Lemmatization uses rules about a language, and resulting tokens take the form of actual words
- Stemming is a crude heuristic that chops the ends off of words, and the resulting token may not be an actual word. Stemming, however, is significantly faster

What is spacy?
- Spacy is a modern & fast nlp library

What does it mean for a library to be opinionated
- A library like spacy is opinionated, in that it typically offers a singular highly optimized way to do something
- This is in contrast to a library like nltk, which offers a huge variety of less optimized methods

When to use these techniques?
- These used to be long standard techniques, however they can offer hurt your performance when using deep learning.
- Stemming, lemmatization, and removing stop words all throw away information

Singular Value Decomposition (SVD)
- SVD is an exact decomposition, since the matrices it creates are big enough to fully cover the original matrix, SVD is widely used in linear algebra, and specifically in data science.

Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF)
- NMF is a non-exact factorization that factors into one skinny positive matrix and one short positive matrix. NMF is NP-hard and non-unique. There are a number of variation on it, created by adding different constraints.

What are some shortcomings of classical algorithms for decomposition:
- Matrices are "stupendously big"
- Data is often missing or innacurate. Why spend extra computational resources when imprecision of input limits precision of the output?
- Data transfer now plays a major role in time of algorithms. Techniques that require fewer passes over the data may be substantially faster, even if they require more flops
- Important tot ake advantage of new generation GPUs

